There is one hyperparameter, namely the hop of reachability query denoted as $k$. $k$-hop reachability queries with different values of $k$ reflect varying degrees of association between entities. For $k = 1$, the 1-hop reachability query is equivalent to the common link prediction task. For $k > 1$, $k$-hop reachability queries could provide additional information about the relationship between two entities, such as multi-hop inference. Generally, entities that are reachable within smaller $k$ hops tend to exhibit stronger associations. Figure 9 illustrates the influence of hyperparameter $k$ on Hits@$q$ for MathVD1 and MathVD2, with $q = 1$, 5, 10 and 15. Initially, Hits@$q$ shows a sharp increase as $k$ increases from very small values; however, after $k$ increases to a certain threshold, the improvement becomes less significant. This indicates that most retrieved $k$-hop reachable entities can actually be accessed via smaller hops, resulting in increasing $k$ beyond this threshold having little effect on the hit rate. This not only highlights the insensitivity of the hit rate to larger values of the hyperparameter $k$, but also underscores the effectiveness of using cosine similarity to retrieve structurally related entities from our VDs.

### 7.3.2 Math LLM reasoning capability

To assess the reasoning behavior of our designed Math LLM, we developed a framework for evaluating the mathematical capabilities of LLMs, based on an extensive literature review. Specifically, we rated the responses generated by the LLM on a scale from 1 to 5, with 5 representing the highest rating. The scoring criteria are as follows: a rating of 5 is assigned when the answer is nearly perfect; 4 is assigned when the model provides a mostly correct answer but with some issues, such as the use of unnecessarily complex methods; 3 is assigned when the model demonstrates correct reasoning but makes significant errors in execution; 2 is assigned when only a small part of the reasoning process is correct; and 1 is assigned when the output is largely irrelevant to the correct answer.

In the experiments, 234 test questions were selected and refined from GHOSTS [30], categorized into six areas: Complement, Prealgebra, Algebra, Theorem, Probability, and Topology. Notably, the Complement category involves questions where parts of the proofs are intentionally omitted, requiring the LLM to fill in the gaps, which effectively aligns with the task of automatic knowledge completion by Math LLM. The evaluation was conducted using an online question-and-answer format, where the dataset question served as the prompt and the feedback was recorded in the output. Subsequently, we manually rated the answers generated by Math LLM according to the established framework. The sample size and average rating for each category of test questions are shown in Table 8, and the rating distribution is illustrated in Fig. 10.

Table 8 The average evaluation rating of Math LLM.

|  Question category | Complement | Prealgebra | Algebra | Theorem | Probability | Topology  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  Sample size | 35 | 43 | 46 | 27 | 44 | 39  |
|  Average rating | 3.3714 | 3.2558 | 3.7826 | 3.3704 | 3.0455 | 3.0513  |