- We propose an automatic KG update method involving two mechanisms. One is for knowledge completion by interacting with a designed Math LLM, and another is for knowledge fusion by MathVD and Llama-2.
- Experiments demonstrate the advanced performance and broad applicability of the AutoMathKG system, including superior reachability query results in MathVD compared to five baselines and robust mathematical reasoning capability in Math LLM.

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces related work. Section 3 provides an overview of the AutoMathKG system. Section 4 describes the KG construction. Section 5 details the VD construction. Section 6 explains the automatic updates method. Section 7 presents the experiments and evaluations. Section 8 conducts a further discussion. Section 9 concludes our work.

## 2 Related work

### 2.1 Mathematical data resource

Regarding math KGs, there are two categories: one for solving problems and the other for integrating concepts. MathGraph [11] aims at solving high school math problems automatically. Math-KG [13] integrates math resources including Baidu Baike and Wikipedia through a pipeline approach. NaturalProofs [12] comprises math statements and their proofs to construct a reference graph with their reference links based on rule matching. MathGloss [14] is a linked database of undergraduate-level math concepts leveraging online resources. Regarding math corpora, there are various sources. AMPS [20] is a synthetic exercise set while lacks challenging math topics. ProofPile [21] focuses on math theorem proving but limited to formal proofs. OpenWebMath [22] is a large-scale corpus composed of web pages. MathPile [23] integrates resources from textbooks, web pages, and others. Regarding math benchmarks, there are various datasets for different levels of knowledge. Some datasets focus on elementary math problems, such as NumGLUE [24] and GSM8K-RFT [25], while some are more challenging at the middle and high school level, such as Camel-Math [26] and MATH [20]. Recently, TheoremQA [27] addresses university-level problems. MathInstruct [15] encompasses various problems with reasoning annotations based on the Chain of Thought (CoT) [28] and Procedure of Thought (PoT) [29] approaches. GHOSTS [30] aims to assess advanced mathematical abilities of LLMs.

### 2.2 Knowledge graph and vector database

Modern knowledge graphs (KGs) assert facts in the form of (subject, predicate, object) triplets, typically stored in a graph database and visualized in graph structures, where subjects and objects are modeled as nodes, and the relationships between them, namely the predicates, are modeled as edges [31]. Some popular KGs include DBpedia [32], YAGO [33], YAGO2 [34], and Google Knowledge Graph [35]. KGs enable graph retrieval augmented generation (RAG) and conversational document retrieval [36]. An important task is to search for similar entities given an input entity. Current methods